{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\deftab720
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Amid these changes, scholars of democracy and democratic practitioners alike are left asking themselves: 
\i What went wrong? Why? What can be done about it?
\i0  Our project emerges from this state of uncertainty: there is still much we need to explain about democratic backsliding in order to be able to understand why it has happened in some countries but not in others. \
\
This project therefore has three core aims: \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\qj\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}to provide a better 
\i understanding
\i0  of democratic backsliding as it pertains both to the region of Central and Eastern Europe and to the broader terrain of liberal democracies worldwide; \
{\listtext	\'95	}to provide an 
\i explanation
\i0  of why democratic backsliding has occurred in CEE; \
{\listtext	\'95	}to 
\i identify remedies 
\i0 for the prevention of backsliding in the future.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
These three aims give rise to three overarching questions which will guide the more detailed and thematically specific research questions. Together, these three questions allow us to unify a disparate literature into a coherent project that follows a robust 
\i describe-classify-test-predict
\i0  logic of comparative research design \{Landman:2016wj p.4\}. \
\
Firstly, although we have set out a preliminary understanding of backsliding above, it will be vital to our project to outline a comprehensive conceptual definition of the notion, and identify how and where it has occurred in Central and Eastern Europe. Our first key research question is thus: 
\i What are the different manifestations of the general phenomenon of democratic backsliding? 
\i0 What are the indicators of democratic decay? Do these indicators cluster together in logical and predictable ways? Do the empirical cases fit into the three theoretical types of democratic decay we propose above? \
\
Having set out a conceptual and typological framework for our research, we then address the task of explanation. Our second key research question is: 
\i What are the causes of democratic backsliding in Central and Eastern Europe? 
\i0 In answering this question, we test competing hypotheses about the causes of democratic backsliding to arrive at a credible set of explanations for the phenomenon.\
\
Our third question is: 
\i What is to be done to remedy existing backsliding and prevent it from happening elsewhere?
\i0  Based on our explanatory analysis, we will be able to forward a set of principles for \'91democracy-proofing\'92 which are predictive, in the sense that we expect recently democratised states to experience backsliding if they do not attend to the recommendations we identify.\
\
It is important to emphasise that we are interested not only in the three questions above, but also in their obverse. To be able to explain cases of democratic backsliding, it is also necessary to explain why other countries which democratised in similar circumstances are able to maintain the integrity of their democracies where others are failing to. We therefore rephrase our questions thus: 
\i What is specific about the democratically successful cases of the region? How can we explain their resistance to the backsliding observed in other countries? Can universal solutions be drawn from the successfully consolidated cases that can be applied to the backsliding ones?}