{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\deftab720
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 The main objective of this project is to explain the diverging trajectories of democracy in Central and Eastern Europe (CEE). While there are cases in which we can observe a clear continuity of democratic consolidation, in particular Estonia, Czech Republic and Slovenia, in other countries the quality of democracy has experienced a significant decline in recent years, most notably Hungary from 2010 onwards and Poland after the 2015 elections. \
\
The cases of democratic backsliding in the region differ ontologically. In some cases, the demand side is prominent, with the majority of voters losing faith in the liberal variant of democracy. In other polities we observe clear-cut examples of supply-side shifts, with part of the political elite turning its back on the liberal principles governing democracies. There are also clear differences in the extent to which domestic and international non-governmental institutions can exert leverage over the governments of particular countries.\
\
In short, democratic backsliding in CEE is occurring in different ways, and has different causes. This project will identify where democratic backsliding is occurring, describe how, and explain why. We will seek to discover whether - as a result of the legacies of communism and democratic transition, the weakness of institutions and the superficial attachment of the public to democratic values - CEE democracies are fated to decline, or whether we must point the finger at the political elites who chose to embark on this path. In doing so, we will also explain the successes: those cases where liberal-democratic institutions and values continue to thrive, or at the very least appear resistant to backsliding.}