{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\deftab720
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\pardirnatural\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 The project team consists of Ann-Cathrine Jungar, associate professor at S\'f6dert\'f6rn University (principal investigator), professor Rados\uc0\u322 aw Markowski and assistant professor Ben Stanley of SWPS University of Social Sciences and Humanities in Warsaw, Poland, and a PhD student to be recruited by S\'f6dert\'f6rn University. All researchers will be financed by the Foundation for Baltic and East European Studies. Jungar will work 50% of full time on the project, Markowski will work 40%, Stanley will work 70%, and the PhD will work 100%. We will also employ researchers to undertake specific tasks for which local language competence is required.\
\
Between them, Jungar, Markowski and Stanley have extensive research experience in the areas relevant for the project, have conducted significant research projects based on the use both of quantitative and qualitative methods, and have disseminated their research findings in leading publications and in a variety of academic and non-academic arenas. Markowski\'92s experience in designing and administering large-scale public opinion surveys is of particular relevance, given the significance of this competence to the project.\
\
The proposed project will complement other research projects at S\'f6dert\'f6rn University, in particular the project \'91Returning to Europe and Turning Away From "Europe"? Post-Accession Attitudes in Central and Eastern Europe\'92 by Prof. Joakim Ekman et al. This project has obvious thematic complementarities with our proposal, and we will draw on the intellectual insights and data resources it has already generated for the design of our own surveys, thereby extending the temporal and spatial reach of that project.\
\
We will collaborate with a variety of country and thematic specialists through a series of five workshops to be scheduled over the period of the project. These workshops will result in joint publications and potentially a special issue of a leading comparative political science journal or an edited volume published by a quality university press. We will arrange sessions at the final workshop to present key findings to a broad audience of academics and non-academic practitioners.}