{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\deftab720
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\pardirnatural\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 The literature on democratic transition and consolidation remains predominantly one-directional, focusing on describing and explaining the process by which authoritarian regimes become democratic. This literature is rich both in theoretical insights and comparative findings. By contrast, the literature on democratic backsliding is still a nascent field in both theoretical and empirical terms, particularly with respect to diachronic and comparative analyses. This is unsurprising, as the events we seek to study are still in their nascency. \
\
While work has been done to \'91map more precisely the terrain between liberal democracy and dictatorship\'92 by giving greater conceptual clarity to the intermediate categories of hybrid regimes \{Bogaards:2009kz p.399\}, only recently have scholars begun systematically to theorise and conceptualise the distinct processes of democratic \'91backsliding\'92, \'91decline\'92, or \'91deconsolidation\'92 \{Foa:2016wm, Foa:2017wu, Inglehart:2016bx, Greskovits:2015bc\}.\
\
Empirical studies of CEE backsliding are disparate in their geographical coverage, empirical focus, theoretical concepts, and methodological approach. The Hungarian case is currently the most well elaborated, with key publications including Magyar\'92s \{*Magyar:2016vq\} sociological theorisation of Hungary as a \'92mafia state\'92 and edited volumes by Krasztev and van Till \{*Krasztev:2015ji\} and Magyar and V\'e1s\'e1rhelyi \{*Magyar:2017tr\} which explore many of the specific manifestations of democratic backsliding. This literature will provide many useful insights and points of departure for our investigations.  There is also useful work being done by legal scholars and analysts of public policy on the role of domestic and European institutions on tackling and facilitating democratic backsliding \{Kelemen:2016cy, Blauberger:2016kc, Schlipphak:2016bd, Sedelmeier:2016br\}.\
\pard\tx560\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\pardirnatural\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Yet we must conclude that the current literature is deficient in three key respects: first, the theoretical paradigm of democratic backsliding is insufficiently specified; second, the stock of our empirical knowledge about cases of backsliding and persistent consolidation is uneven, with more attention given to some cases at the expense of others; third, while there are examples of research broadly fitting into each of the three themes we identify above (studies of the anti-liberal ideologies of certain parties \{Pirro:2016iw\}; studies of \'91populist voting\'92 on the demand side \{vanHauwaert:2016ub\}; and studies of the impact of anti-liberal governments \{Stanley:2016bg, Batory:2015ee\}), the topic of democratic backsliding in CEE has not been subjected to a comparative investigation that synthesises these three strands into a single analytical whole. This is what our project will achieve.}