{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\deftab720
\pard\tx560\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\pardirnatural\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 We will employ a multi-method strategy to address each of the three research themes identified above. To answer questions about the supply side, we will conduct qualitative and quantitative content analysis of the political rhetoric and ideological positioning of elites, using key data sources such as the speeches of leaders and the manifestos of political parties. For the analysis of values, attitudes and electoral behaviour of voters over time, we will conduct quantitative analyses of key indicators from established datasets and the data we will collect within the project (see below). To analyse the impact of institutions, we will use a combination of thick description of processes, formal analysis of veto players, and quantitative analysis of the attitudes of citizens towards these institutions, drawing on public opinion data and our own datasets. For quantifying and mapping the degree of democratic backsliding, we will create synthetic measures from a range of data sources that measure aspects of democratic development and quality, such as the Bertelsmann Transformation Index \{BertelsmannStiftung:2016wy\} and the Varieties of Democracy indices \{VarietiesofDemocra:2017wc\}.\
\
It is necessary briefly to explain why we need to collect our own data. First, we must ensure adequate temporal and geographical coverage at a time of accelerated democratic backsliding. Across all the countries of the region, existing datasets - in particular the World Values Survey (WVS) and European Social Survey (ESS) - provide a wealth of data over time on: socio-demographics; classic determinants of electoral behaviour; attitudes toward democracy and liberal-democratic institutions; attitudes toward European integration; general ideological dispositions, and voting behaviour. Yet for in-depth analysis of the countries of specific interest to us, we must bring certain variables up to date, particularly those which concern attitudes toward democracy, democratic institutions, and voting behaviour. Although new waves of the WVS and ESS will be going into the field during the lifetime of the project, they do not cover all the countries and questions of interest to us. In particular, we wish to replicate certain key questions contained in the 6
\fs16 \super th
\fs24 \nosupersub  wave of the ESS, which focuses on attitudes to democracy crucial for our research design.  \
\
Furthermore, we wish to  include several batteries of new questions which measure attitudes not covered - or inadequately covered - by existing surveys. This is vital for our purposes. While the precise composition of these new items is yet to be determined, we will certainly need a broader set of measures on liberal democratic values and attitudes to liberal democratic institutions, a dedicated battery of questions measuring anti-establishment and populist attitudes, and questions that tap attitudes of citizens to recent developments in Hungary and Poland.\
\
The first year of the project will be dedicated to the elaboration of our theoretical framework and the design of data collection strategies. Most of the data will be collected and analysed during the second year of the project, including the fielding of the surveys. The third year will then be devoted to further analysis of the data and the preparation of the majority of outputs. We have budgeted for regular project meetings to allow us to coordinate and monitor our progress. We anticipate that the project will give rise to around 8-10 academic articles, and ultimately a monograph, to be written by various combinations of the research team and associated collaborators. We will disseminate the results of the project at key international conferences in Europe and the US.}